Welcome to the CSS basic section.
So far, we have used HTML
to put content on our webpage.
Now, we'll use some basic CSS to actually
style that content to make it look
the way we want it.
After this section, you will be able to build
a simple layout with some formatted content.
We will continue to work on this simple blog past webpage
that I showed you before.
So we will add some more content,
build a simple layout and style the whole thing.
After this section, we will be ready to start
on our killer website project.
So, what is CSS?
CSS stands for cascading style sheets.
CSS defines exactly how HTML elements should look.
It allows us to make a clear separation
between content and style.
HTML is the content and CSS is style.
These two images show the exact same HTML
with the only difference
that the website on the left side
has not been formatted with CSS yet.
It's just bare HTML, which doesn't look very good,
of course.
So how are we gonna use CSS in practice?
There are three ways to use CSS.
First, we can write CSS code
right inside an HTML tag using the style attribute.
Second, we can write CSS code in the head section
of an HTML document.
And third, CSS code can be put into an external file.
And this is what we're actually going to do.
Remember what I said about
how CSS allows us to separate content from style?
That is why we'll put all our visual styles
in a separate file 'cause it's a much cleaner solution
and therefore everybody does it that way.
So let's go back to brackets and do this.
So let's start by creating a new file
just as we did before with the HTML file.
So File, New
and then save it with command S or control S
and I will call it style.css.
Okay, that's it.
You see, now it appears here
in our project folder.
Now I'm going to go back to the HTML file
because now we have to tell the HTML file
in which CSS file the new styles will be.
So to link these two documents
we use the link tag in the HTML head
just like this.
Link.
And this is another element which has no closing text.
So it's just link.
I hope you remember HTML attributes
because we will use them right now.
So at start we tell the browser
that we want to link a style sheet.
So rel and style sheet.
Then next we
tell the HTML document
that it is a CSS file
and finally with the H ref attribute
we used before for our links,
we tell the document
where the CSS styles are.
Style.css, which is the file we just created before.
So hit enter and now
these two documents are linked.
Alright, now we are ready to start writing some CSS.
And let's do that in the next lecture.